Hi,
this is Chad Nelson from Analog Devices
GMSL Applications team.
I'm going to be presenting on cables and
connectors for automotive video links.
The cable and connector types used for
automotive cert as links are listed here
in this chart.
The left column shows the various cable
types including coaxial shielded twisted
pair,
twin axial or shielded parallel pair,
shielded twisted quad,
and finally dual twin axe slash shielded
parallel pair.
The middle column lists the specific
connectors associated with certain cable
types.
These include HFM or mini Focra,
mate AX and the standard Focra.
For shielded parallel pair.
We have the HMTD connector also used for
twin axial SPP cables.
The HSD connector is used for shielded
twisted quad and dual twin axe whereas
I've only seen HSAL 2 used with STQ
cables.
The connector performance in terms of low
reflections is led by the HMTD connector
followed by MATE, AXH, FM and FOCRA.
HSD performance falls below these and
work is being done to determine if we can
recommend STQ cables for use with GMSL 3.
Coaxial cables have a lot going for them.
They typically have very good signal
shielding and have lower insertion loss
relative to differential cables.
Coaxial cables have been thoroughly
tested with GMSL 1-2 and three to great
success.
Sending power over these cables is common.
The negatives relate to the fact that a
single ended signal is more susceptible
to things like bulk current injection.
Also,
the single ended trace on the PCB can be
disrupted more easily by electromagnetic
interference.
Coaxial connectors include the ubiquitous
FAKRA, the newer, more compact HFM,
and MATE AX.
The compact nature of the HFM and Mate AX
lend nicely to ganged connectors.
Note that ganged connectors require extra
design work to ensure low crosstalk
between signals.
Shielded twisted pair cables have an
advantage over coax that arises from the
nature of a differential signal.
Although the shielding on STP cables is
not quite as effective as coax,
this is typically more than offset by the
fact that signals induced on the cable
will generate a mostly common mode
disturbance.
Differential receivers can reject common
mode energy,
helping their performance with EMC.
These cables are also less susceptible to
bulk current injection due to
differential signaling.
These have been tested with great results
for GMSL 1-2 and three.
One disadvantage is that these cables can
exhibit mode conversion if not
manufactured properly.
This can lead to timing jitter and eye
closure, reducing link margin.
Due to the need to maintain a small cable
diameter in spite of the extra conductor,
the wire gauges are kept smaller and
result in more loss per meter than coax.
Shielded parallel pair or twin axe cables
are similar to STP cables except instead
of using A twist to hold the wires
together,
a foil wrap or bonded installation keeps
the wires properly aligned.
When compared to STP cables,
these have the benefit of improved or
reduced differential to common mode
conversion.
Having said this,
I've not noticed excessive mode
conversion in any of the most recent STP
or STQ cables that I've measured.
The parallel nature of these cables make
flexibility not as symmetric as the
twisted cables.
These cables have historically been more
expensive than standard STP cables.
HMTD is the standard connector for STP
and SPP cables.
The connector has excellent return loss
characteristics and exceptional inline
connector continuity,
making Daisy chaining of multiple cables
practically a non issue.
Because of the nature of differential
signaling,
AC coupling the ground connection on one
side of the link to reduce ground loop
issues is fairly straightforward.
Shielded twisted quad cables are similar
to STP cables,
except that these contain 2 differential
signal pairs.
These pairs are oriented 90° from each
other in a cross pattern.
This orientation helps reduce crosstalk
and is surprisingly good at doing so.
Some advantages are that EMC performance
is good due to differential signaling.
Another benefit is that 2 GMSL links can
be carried across a single cable,
resulting in 12 gigabits per second
downstream data in dual link mode.
Another option is to use one pair for the
GMSL link and the other for power,
eliminating the need for POC filter
networks.
These cables are very popular in China.
The disadvantages are that there is
crosstalk between the pairs that does
limit the maximum reach,
and the HSD connectors have higher return
loss than other types.
The connectors used for STQ cables are
the HSD and the HSAL 2 connector.
Rosenberger's HSD connector is much more
popular than Molex's HSAL 2 connector,
at least for Cerdez applications.
These connectors struggle with return
loss,
so they do require extra consideration to
achieve GMSL channel specification limits.
I've seen marketing materials showing
this type of cable,
but have yet to see any in person.
These cables should have good EMC
performance due to being differential,
and they should have improved mode
conversion performance over standard STP
cables.
The disadvantages are that they have not
yet been tested by Analog Devices similar
to STQ cables.
There is a potential for crosstalk
between the pairs,
and these cables are expected to be more
expensive than STQ cables.
Here we have a cable information table.
This is an incomplete list of cables,
but these are some of the popular ones.
These include Leone of Germany,
Shikoku of Japan,
and Gabauer and Griller of Austria.
For each of these models,
we show the loss per meter and the
maximum reach per GMSL data rate.
The three O2 coax gets the crown for the
longest reach achievable.
The STQ cables have asterisks by the Max
length numbers because we are still
working on a full characterization of
these cables.
In the meantime,
we have these estimated numbers based on
our limited data testing that we've done.
Thanks for your time and please get in
contact with me, Chad Nelson,
if you have any questions.